to compile (install) evalresp from this distribution, follow
these steps:

1. Uncompress and untar the distribution file.  
 
        zcat evalresp-[version].tar.gz | tar -xvf - 

   This will create a directory "evalresp" that contains the full
   evalresp distribution.

2. Run './configure' to construct a 'Makefile' appropriate for your
   site ('./configure' uses the 'Makefile.in' file to construct the
   'Makefile' for your site).  Use the following procedure

   Go into the "evalresp" directory 
 
        cd evalresp
 
   and run the auto-configuration script "./configure"
 
        ./configure 
 
   * If you want to use acc (or any other compiler), simply set
     the CC environment variable as follows:
 
        setenv CC acc
        ./configure

     type './configure --help' for help with other options that can
     be set on the command line when running the './configure' script

  * The following ./configure options can be used during this stage:
    
     --enable-phase-unwrap     Unwrap phase
     --enable-lib-mode         Functions of evalresp return, not exit
     --enable-log-label        Add NSLC as a label to log messages
     --enable-debug            Enable debug
     --enable-optimization     Enable optimization
     --enable-strict           Enable strict mode

3. Compile the program "evalresp".
 
        make 

   this will also construct a library (libevresp.a) that can be linked
   into other external programs in order to allow them to evaluate responses
   the same way that evalresp does.  To add the 'evresp' function to your own
   program, just add the call to evresp in your code and link with the
   'libevresp.a' library when compiling and linking your executable.

   an example of this process is the compile statement for the 'evtest.f'
   FORTRAN program, which is included in this distribution as an example
   of how to call evresp from your own code.  Although the 'evtest' program
   is not compiled by default, it can be compiled using the following command:

        f77 evtest.f -L. -levresp -o evtest
